Update libcamera build instructions (#3549)
raspberrypi/documentation: documentation/asciidoc/computers/camera/rpicam_apps_building.adoc

==== Building `libcamera`

NOTE: Only build `libcamera` from scratch if you need custom behaviour or the latest features that have not yet reached `apt` repositories.

[NOTE]
======
If you run Raspberry Pi OS Lite, begin by installing the following packages:

[source,console]
----
$ sudo apt install -y python3-pip git python3-jinja2
----
======

First, install the following `libcamera` dependencies:

[source,console]
----
$ sudo apt install -y libboost-dev
$ sudo apt install -y libgnutls28-dev openssl libtiff5-dev pybind11-dev
$ sudo apt install -y qtbase5-dev libqt5core5a libqt5gui5 libqt5widgets5
$ sudo apt install -y meson cmake
$ sudo apt install -y python3-yaml python3-ply
$ sudo apt install -y libglib2.0-dev libgstreamer-plugins-base1.0-dev
----

Now we're ready to build `libcamera` itself.

Download a local copy of Raspberry Pi's fork of `libcamera` from GitHub:

[source,console]
----
$ git clone https://github.com/raspberrypi/libcamera.git
----

Navigate into the root directory of the repository:

[source,console]
----
$ cd libcamera
----

Next, run `meson` to configure the build environment:

[source,console]
----

> $ meson setup build --buildtype=release -Dpipelines=rpi/vc4,rpi/pisp -Dipas=rpi/vc4,rpi/pisp -Dv4l2=true -Dgstreamer=enabled -Dtest=false -Dlc-compliance=disabled -Dcam=disabled -Dqcam=disabled -Ddocumentation=disabled -Dpycamera=enabled

Author: Yep! We actually do this in a lot of other places in the documentation. It's meant to make it obvious that you're dealing with lines intended to be entered into a CLI.

I would like to enhance our copy/paste snippet workflow to include a button that ignores the symbol. And, better yet, make the $ symbol nonselectable so even old school manual copy/paste can't grab it accidentally. But we haven't done that yet.

Right now, it's there because it's useful to delineate one-liner snippets meant for the CLI (or collections of commands run on the CLI in a single snippet) from commands meant to be written into a file. We haven't always made that distinction obvious in the past. For now, this is as good as it gets, but I will look into improvements.

> $ meson setup build --buildtype=release -Dpipelines=rpi/vc4,rpi/pisp -Dipas=rpi/vc4,rpi/pisp -Dv4l2=true -Dgstreamer=enabled -Dtest=false -Dlc-compliance=disabled -Dcam=disabled -Dqcam=disabled -Ddocumentation=disabled -Dpycamera=enabled

Reviewer: When long command-lines get word-wrapped (which is more of a problem in the PDF documentation than the HTML documentation), it also makes it clearer which lines are "new command lines" and which lines are merely "a continuation of the previous line".

> $ meson setup build --buildtype=release -Dpipelines=rpi/vc4,rpi/pisp -Dipas=rpi/vc4,rpi/pisp -Dv4l2=true -Dgstreamer=enabled -Dtest=false -Dlc-compliance=disabled -Dcam=disabled -Dqcam=disabled -Ddocumentation=disabled -Dpycamera=enabled

Reviewer 2: IMHO, having the ability to easily copy/paste single or multiple commands from the documentation is a massive quality of life improvement.  I would advocate getting this working asap.

> $ meson setup build --buildtype=release -Dpipelines=rpi/vc4,rpi/pisp -Dipas=rpi/vc4,rpi/pisp -Dv4l2=true -Dgstreamer=enabled -Dtest=false -Dlc-compliance=disabled -Dcam=disabled -Dqcam=disabled -Ddocumentation=disabled -Dpycamera=enabled

Reviewer 3: I don't disagree, and it's on the list.

> $ meson setup build --buildtype=release -Dpipelines=rpi/vc4,rpi/pisp -Dipas=rpi/vc4,rpi/pisp -Dv4l2=true -Dgstreamer=enabled -Dtest=false -Dlc-compliance=disabled -Dcam=disabled -Dqcam=disabled -Ddocumentation=disabled -Dpycamera=enabled

Author: Added to the list: https://github.com/raspberrypi/documentation/issues/3556

----

NOTE: You can disable the `gstreamer` plugin by replacing `-Dgstreamer=enabled` with `-Dgstreamer=disabled` during the `meson` build configuration. If you disable `gstreamer`, there is no need to install the `libglib2.0-dev` and `libgstreamer-plugins-base1.0-dev` dependencies.

Now, you can build `libcamera` with `ninja`:

[source,console]
----
$ ninja -C build
----

Finally, run the following command to install your freshly-built `libcamera` binary:

[source,console]
----
$ sudo ninja -C build install
----

TIP: On devices with 1GB of memory or less, the build may exceed available memory. Append the `-j 1` flag to `ninja` commands to limit the build to a single process. This should prevent the build from exceeding available memory on devices like the Raspberry Pi Zero and the Raspberry Pi 3.

`libcamera` does not yet have a stable binary interface. Always build `rpicam-apps` after you build `libcamera`.

==== Building `rpicam-apps`

First fetch the necessary dependencies for `rpicam-apps`.

[source,console]
----
$ sudo apt install -y cmake libboost-program-options-dev libdrm-dev libexif-dev
$ sudo apt install -y meson ninja-build
----

> Download a local copy of Raspberry Pi's fork of `rpicam-apps` from GitHub:

Reviewer: The name `rpicam-apps` suggests that it's **not** a fork of another repository?

Author: ```suggestion
Download a local copy of Raspberry Pi's `rpicam-apps` GitHub repository:
```

[source,console]
----
$ git clone https://github.com/raspberrypi/rpicam-apps.git
----

Navigate into the root directory of the repository:

[source,console]
----
$ cd rpicam-apps
----

For desktop-based operating systems like Raspberry Pi OS, configure the `rpicam-apps` build with the following `meson` command:

[source,console]
----
$ meson setup build -Denable_libav=true -Denable_drm=true -Denable_egl=true -Denable_qt=true -Denable_opencv=false -Denable_tflite=false
----

> For headless operating systems like Raspberry Pi OS Lite, configure the `rpicam-apps` build with the following `meson` command:

Reviewer: Only a minor nitpick, but this "For desktop-based operating systems like Raspberry Pi OS..." and "For headless operating systems like Raspberry Pi OS Lite..." wording is slightly inconsistent with the earlier instructions, where it basically said "Do _this_, but if you're running Raspberry Pi OS Lite do _this_ instead". :man_shrugging:
